I have a challenge for you I don't want
you to use
notes on your next speech you might be
thinking wait that's crazy I've never
given a speech before of course I need
to have notes but I'm telling you right
now you don't what we know about reading
notes for btim off of a piece of paper
is that it takes away from so many of
the fundamentals of what makes a speech
great things like body language and
vocal variety the best speakers don't
use notes and in this video I am going
to give you five specific ways of how
you can deliver your next speech with
either zero notes at all or very limited
notes that you don't have to reference
often during the speech my first tip for
how you can accomplish this is don't
write out your full speech word for word
I know this is very tempting and this is
part of many people's process when they
begin thinking about creating a speech
they just like they would write a story
they write out the speech word for word
but the problem with that is it's hard
to deviate it's hard to go away from
what we've written down because that
initial thing that we've written down is
our crutch we rely on that and so as we
start to practice the speech when we're
practicing and we don't say the words
exactly as we've written them down it
can be difficult and I don't want you to
be handcuffed to those original notes
a better way to create your speech is
building it into sections for example if
this YouTube video was a speech I would
have seven sections section number one
was the intro the dramatic ripping of
the paper that you saw earlier that
would be the first section section two
would be this first tip don't write out
your full speech the third section would
be the second tip fourth would be the
third and so on where the seventh
section of the speech would be the
conclusion this is a much better way
because as you're practicing you're
focusing on ideas or these sections that
don't have every word written out
verbatim another example is with a
wedding speech again section one will be
your introduction that hook that you use
to grab the audience's attention and
then perhaps the second section is a
story about the bride or the groom
here's the Great part about telling a
story you don't have to remember all of
that and I'm going to touch on that in
an upcoming tip but it's sections like
these perhaps the third section would be
great characteristics about the bride or
Grom the fourth section would be
something about the Brier groom's
partner that they're about to marry and
then again the fifth section can be the
conclusion so you break your speech into
these different chunks and it's a much
less daunting thing to remember than a
bunch of of text that's directly on a
page another important thing to remember
that gets some new speakers caught up
from time to time is that the audience
doesn't know what you've written down
sometimes we get caught up because we
think oh as I'm presenting this this
wasn't exactly like how I had practiced
it but the audience doesn't know that
all they know is what you're delivering
to them in that moment so this is
another reason to get away from the word
to word so that we don't get caught up
on those words that we originally wrote
down on a piece of paper instead we have
these General themes and we can adapt
more easily when we're delivering our
speech my next tip is to memorize your
intro and your conclusion of the speech
those are things you should have well
practiced and firm in your mind because
when you stand in front of that audience
and you begin to speak it's a daunting
experience having all of those eyes on
you feeling the pressure of doing a good
job you want to know what the first
words out of your mouth are going to be
and you want to know it very well so
that you're not struggling to remember
what it was that you were going to say I
mentioned this earlier but the first
things out of your mouth should hook the
audience it should be something more
interesting than hi everyone for those
who don't know me my name is Wade and I
am the best man in this wedding you
don't need to say that people already
know who you are you don't have to start
with that very common introduction you
can jump right into something more
entertaining perhaps you make the
audience laugh and say something
humorous right away perhaps you jump
right into a story perhaps you make a
bold statement perhaps you ask a
question these are all ways to start off
the intro of your speech but that should
be something that you have committed to
memory and likewise you want to know how
the speech is going to wrap up and those
final few lines again should be
memorized what I like to always advise
is that speeches come full circle so if
you started off by asking the audience a
question perhaps in a business
presentation it's a powerful thing to on
the conclusion revisit that question
that you asked but now with all of the
information you gave throughout the
speech you can provide the answer and
that will be a very powerful way to
conclude your speech but the intro and
the conclusion should definitely be
something you have memorized the next
way you can deliver a presentation
without using notes is by sort of
cheating the system and using visual
notes through a PowerPoint or visual
presentation this is something I do very
often because visuals can often add to
our speeches and many presentations it's
common to have some some sort of slides
but the secondary benefit of having
slides is that those are visual cues or
reminders to what you're going to be
talking about next of course those
slides shouldn't have too many words and
you definitely shouldn't be reading
words off of a slide as that is
completely counterproductive to giving a
great speech but if you were going to
tell a story about when you were in
fifth grade maybe there's a photo of a
playground as you switch to that slide
and you remember ah Elementary School
playground this is my story that I'm
telling about fifth grade that is your
cue or your reminder and if you built
your speech how I suggested earlier
rather than writing out verbatim notes
word for word you've just built it into
sections those visuals can represent
each of the sections my Pro tip here is
to have some sort of visual in front of
you so if you're facing the audience
what I don't want you to do is to
continue to look back at your slides
that they're looking at which may be
projected behind you because then you're
turning your back to the audience they
won't be able to hear you as clearly and
it doesn't look as professional instead
if those slides are connected to through
an HDMI cord to your laptop you can have
your laptop screen subtly open in front
of you and as you're presenting to the
the audience you can quickly look down
and you know whatever you're seeing on
your laptop will be the same as what's
being shown on the projector screen
behind you this is something that's very
common for even keynote speakers they
have something called a comfort monitor
which is usually right in front of the
stage which is showing them what slide
is being projected so this is a great
way to sort of cheat the whole not
having notes but still be reminded of
what you should be talking about my next
tip is to include personal stories I
recently had a guest named Valerie
Garcia on my podcast keys from Keynotes
and Valerie had this incredible quote
which was never tell a story without
making a point and never make a point
without telling a story she talked about
how it's important to capture the
audience's hearts and not just Minds
when we're trying to get something
across and stories are more interesting
there's a statistic that stories are
remembered up to 22 times more than
facts alone but there's a secondary
benefit to telling stories while giving
a speech and that is they're easy to
remember if there is a story that you've
told family members or friends many
times in the past you don't have to
worry about writing that story down word
for word in fact that would take away
from it cuz this is something you know
how to tell you've already done it so so
now your notes can be as subtle as a
trigger or a reminder about the story
you're supposed to tell and then you can
just jump into the story whether it's 3
minutes or 5 minutes or 10 minutes you
know how to tell that story and you know
how you're going to tie it into the
speech stories are one of the best ways
that you can avoid having to write down
notes my final tip is something all of
you know very well if you've seen my
other videos and that is to practice and
I will say very simply the difference
between people who are Soo speakers and
Elite speakers is often the commitment
to practicing and perfecting that speech
because you can follow all of the
previous four tips that I gave you
before this one and I almost guarantee
if you never practice that speech and
you just show up on the day of the event
and you try to deliver it it will not be
as good had you practiced and really
focused on how you're going to deliver
the speech practicing not only gets us
more familiar with the material which is
going to be really important if we're
not using notes the day of the event
because we're going to be nervous our
minds will be racing there's going to be
enough to worry about we don't also want
to worry about Oh shoot what was I
supposed to say and the great thing
about practice is that keeps it more
familiarized in our head we know that
content because we've gone through it a
number of times whether that's by
ourselves whether that's presenting in
front of a friend or a family member we
know that material much more solidly and
that is going to help you so much on
your quest to deliver a speech without
notes I hope that this video on ditching
your notes has been helpful I really
encourage you if you are somebody who is
interested in giving more speeches in
the future try and do this try to get
away from the crutch that is notes as
soon as possible it is going to be the
biggest game Cher it is the single
greatest thing that separates amateur
speakers from those who are at a bigger
more Elite level is the ability to do a
presentation without relying on written
notes especially those people who read
the words verbatim like this and their
voice sounds so boring we can do better
my friends so I encourage you try to
give your next speech without notes I
know you can do it